---
layout: post
title: "Two Weeks Done and Dusted"
date: 2017-10-07
---
Yesterday marked my 10th day of CodeClan classes. I had planned on trying to document this experience much more thoroughly but the truth is I've been so exhausted at the end of each day that I simply haven't had the brain power needed to unpack it.

I knew that trying to cram a year's worth of learning into 4 months was always going to be intense and demanding but what I hadn't anticipated was the toll it would take on my emotional well-being. When you are sat in a classroom all day doing code-alongs and pair programming, it is easy to be lulled into a false sense of security; "Hey, I get this! This makes sense!". But when you're faced with creating something all by yourself in the evening, that self-assurance quickly fades. In what has been a recurring theme for me, I'll write some code and the logic will be spot-on but I'll have made a silly mistake in the implementation and as soon as I hit a test failure or an error I wasn't expecting, my confidence plummets and I start to question my understanding of the concepts as a whole. I'm sure everyone who is learning a new skill goes through this but the stakes seem so high when you've given up a secure job to gamble on your own ability. I find myself going to bed full of anxiety about whether my progress is sufficient and then inevitably waking up every hour or so just to lay there and question whether I'm smart enough to see this through.

On Wednesday we were set a task of creating a Snakes and Ladders game. By the end of the day, only a few people had managed to complete it and most of us had hit a real low in our confidence levels. That evening I was an emotional wreck. By Thursday, the lack of sleep and the stress of worrying if I was actually cut-out for programming had taken its toll and I felt completely dejected. The instructors were very supportive and assured us all that the game was never meant to be finished, it was just a thought experiment to get us thinking about how we plan and approach projects. They obviously recognise the danger in squashing everyone's confidence and planned a fairly easy day of going over blocks & enumeration to try to give us a bit of a boost.

For all the angst and stress I've endured over the last 2 weeks, I feel like I'm starting to come out the other side. It is important to give myself credit for the things I have learned in such a short time! I'm actually starting to feel that I've got a grasp on object oriented programming, I'm able to look at a problem and break it down into sensible chunks and I'm able to recall from memory the Ruby syntax I need to make things happen. Nothing groundbreaking but still an achievement to be proud of! 
